README.md, before:

# RTV USA AGD
Rails + React

## Development
0. Install [Ruby 3.2.2](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/), Node.js and a `vips` package (or `vips-tools`, or `libvips` depending on your Linux distribution. I have no idea about Windows), and `postgresql-devel` (or `libpq-dev` on debain-based distros)
   Set up a PostgreSQL database
1. Clone the repository
2. Export required environment variables: `DATABASE_HOST`, `DATABASE_NAME`, `DATABASE_USER`, `DATABASE_PASSWORD`, and optionally `DATABASE_PORT`
3. Run the following snippet from the repository root to install dependencies and run database migrations, and populate DB with example data
```sh
bundle install
npm --prefix frontend install
rails db:migrate
rails db:seed
```
4. Start the development server by running `bin/dev`. It will start both the Rails and Vite dev servers. If you're on Windows, good luck with that, because I have no idea how to do it. Try WSL, or smthg, idk  
   Alternatively, you can start Vite and Rails separately, with `npm --prefix frontend run dev` and `rails s`.

### Running backend in Docker
0. If you want to run it on a Windows host, you have to install [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/).  
   If using Linux or WSL, you can install [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/#server) itself. Choose the distro you're using, and follow instructions to install Docker.
1. After you're done installing Docker, open the terminal (either Powershell or Linux terminal, depending on your installation type). Navigate to the project root and run the following commands to build a Docker image of a project, run database migrations and populate DB with example data:
```shell
docker compose build
docker compose run backend rails db:migrate
docker compose run backend rails db:seed
```
> **Note**  
> If docker cli requires you to use sudo, follow these instructions to add your user to the docker group:
> https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/

2. To start the backend container, run the following command:
```shell
docker compose up
```

3. Keep in mind that every time backend code is updated, you have to rebuild the container and apply new migrations.

### How to manually add products
1. Run `rails c` to get interactive Rails console  
   If backend is run inside a Docker container, use `docker compose run backend rails c` instead.
2. Paste the following snippet, replace the values, and press enter
```rb
Product.new(name: "Test Product", price: 12.34, description: "Lorem ipsum").save
```
3. Type `exit` to exit the Rails console

## API Documentation
In your IDE open the file [openapi.yaml](openapi.yaml) and install the OpenAPI Specification plugin from JetBrains
![screenshot](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/969317854635769929/1091670517859242014/image.png)

Commit message:

Update README.md to include info about admin panel And creating admin users

README.md, after:

# RTV USA AGD
Rails + React

## Development
0. Install [Ruby 3.2.2](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/), Node.js and a `vips` package (or `vips-tools`, or `libvips` depending on your Linux distribution. I have no idea about Windows), and `postgresql-devel` (or `libpq-dev` on debain-based distros)
   Set up a PostgreSQL database
1. Clone the repository
2. Export required environment variables: `DATABASE_HOST`, `DATABASE_NAME`, `DATABASE_USER`, `DATABASE_PASSWORD`, and optionally `DATABASE_PORT`
3. Run the following snippet from the repository root to install dependencies and run database migrations, and populate DB with example data
```sh
bundle install
npm --prefix frontend install
rails db:migrate
rails db:seed
```
4. Start the development server by running `bin/dev`. It will start both the Rails and Vite dev servers. If you're on Windows, good luck with that, because I have no idea how to do it. Try WSL, or smthg, idk  
   Alternatively, you can start Vite and Rails separately, with `npm --prefix frontend run dev` and `rails s`.

### Running backend in Docker
0. If you want to run it on a Windows host, you have to install [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/).  
   If using Linux or WSL, you can install [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/#server) itself. Choose the distro you're using, and follow instructions to install Docker.
1. After you're done installing Docker, open the terminal (either Powershell or Linux terminal, depending on your installation type). Navigate to the project root and run the following commands to build a Docker image of a project, run database migrations and populate DB with example data:
```shell
docker compose build
docker compose run backend rails db:migrate
docker compose run backend rails db:seed
```
> **Note**  
> If docker cli requires you to use sudo, follow these instructions to add your user to the docker group:
> https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/

2. To start the backend container, run the following command:
```shell
docker compose up
```

3. Keep in mind that every time backend code is updated, you have to rebuild the container and apply new migrations.

### Using admin panel
Just go to http://localhost:3000/admin and log in using an admin account

> **Note**  
> If you ran `rails db:seed`, it generated a default admin user with email `admin@rtv-usa-agd.com` and password `admin`

#### Creating admin users
1. If you want to create and admin user, run `rails c` to get interactive Rails console  
   If backend is run inside a Docker container, use `docker compose run backend rails c` instead.
2. Paste the following snippet, replace the values, and press enter
```rb
AdminUser.create!(email: 'admin@rtv-usa-agd.com', password: 'admin')
```
3. Type `exit` to exit the Rails console

## API Documentation
In your IDE open the file [openapi.yaml](openapi.yaml) and install the OpenAPI Specification plugin from JetBrains
![screenshot](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/969317854635769929/1091670517859242014/image.png)
